All right, so to get our site online, the
first thing we're gonna wanna do is we've
made a whole bunch of changes,
we made that initial commit.
We did another follow-up one
when we finished our HTML, but
we're gonna be hooking
up Netlify to GitHub.
So, all the code that's going
online is coming through GitHub,
so the first thing we need to do is
push those changes over to GitHub.
So it's the same process we did before,
we came to the litter
Source Control thing here.
We can stage those, so you just click
the plus for Stage All Changes, and
then you can put in a message, so in this
case we could say finished page one.
Most of the time when you're doing these,
you probably wanna do these in a bit
smaller sections along the way.
For what we're doing right now,
I think it's completely fine
to have it set up in this way.
So finish page one, we can commit
that it's gonna ask us to sync,
we can hit sync changes, and
just like that, everything's up on GitHub.
With our site up on GitHub, the next thing
we wanna do is connect it to Netlify.
So I'm gonna just go to netlify.com, you
will need to have an account with them, so
you can sign up if If you don't have one,
it's free, doesn't take very long.
I'm gonna log in cuz I already have an
account, and you can see I do us Netlify
regularly for a lot of my own projects
cuz I think it's a pretty good host.
Right here there's a big add new, there
is another way you can do this if you
wanna sort of not bother
with version control,
where you'll see a thing
that looks like this.
We can actually drag and
drop a folder into Netlify,
and it will just build the project
that you drop into there.
I wouldn't really recommend
getting used to that,
cuz it's not the best
workflow in the world.
You can even update by
dropping new folders in there,
it's cool how easy it is, but
the connection with GitHub is a bit more
realistic to what you'll
be doing in the real world.
And in the workforce, so
I'm gonna go to the add new site and
I'm gonna choose import
an existing project.
It's gonna ask you for what GI provider
you're using, so I'm gonna choose GitHub.
If you did use a different GI provider,
you can go with whichever one you want,
it will ask you to authorize.
You can see I the big flash there cuz
I've already made the connection between,
I've already authorized Netlify
to connect with GitHub.
So you will have to give
it permission to do so,
which means you'll probably have to log in
if you're not already logged into GitHub,
you just say yes, and
now it has access to your repos.
You do have a choice of giving it
access to all of your repositories, or
you can select only specific
ones if you you want,
I just give it access to everything,
cuz it's easier.
But if you're just worried
about privacy or anything and
you just wanna focus on specific ones,
there's no problem.
It's pretty easy just to select which
ones you want to give it access to.
And when you get your list here in
Netlify, you'll only see the ones that
you've given it access to,
instead of seeing all of them.
In my case,
because I did choose all of them,
it can be hard to [LAUGH]
find the one I want.
So I'm gonna come over here and right FEM,
I think it was from scratch and
it should find it.
There we go, two minutes ago, so
you can see it was very recently updated,
its public.
But again, if it was a private
repo that you're using,
it's also going to be able to find it.
There's no problem at all with
finding that, and you can click on it.
It's gonna ask you for a site name, this
is gonna relate to the URL it's gonna use.
You could you leave it blank and
you'll just get a random one,
but we can do FEM from scratch.
And I'm gonna do example,
give it any name you want,
some you guys can fight over whoever gets.
The default one, or the fungi finders
one add, I'll do check availability,
it tells me that the site
name is available.
Just nice to do that before you
get to the end and hit submit and
find out you need to change it.
But any name you want here,
choose whatever you want,
there's some build sightings
along the way here as well.
These you don't have to do anything too
fancy, for this project, if you get into
other things, JavaScript frameworks and
things that require build steps.
There will be some parts that you'll have
to fill out here, though, Netlify does
detect what you're using for those, so
it will auto fill a lot of these and
usually get it right, but
you'll wanna double check everything.
In this case, main branch is correct,
we don't need anything else.
We don't need any environment variables,
so
I can just click Deploy FEM from scratch,
example.
And in doing that, it does not take very
long, it brings us to this page where
it will be a site deploy in progress,
and you just wait a little bit.
In this case, it should go extremely
fast because it's just a static website,
that has to throw some static
files online, and it will work.
If there's a build step, it can take a
couple of minutes to go through the build,
but sometimes it automatically updates
the screen to let you know when it's done.
In my experience, sometimes you need
to refresh, and I can see it's not yet
deployed.
Sometimes when this happens, it's waiting
because I'm on a free account, so
you just wait cuz you're in the queue
of sites that have to build.
So if you find the wait a little bit long,
you can also click on deploying your
site and see what the holdup is,
where it's busy building and deploying
our site, but there's nothing wrong.
I just have to wait,
you can even play a little game of
find the card while you're waiting.
We won't do that right now,
once it's done you'll get everything
coming up to being complete.
Hopefully there's no errors, there
shouldn't be anything that can happen when
it's a static site, like we're doing now
with just HTML and CSS along the way.
So we shouldn't see any problems,
you can say, open, production, deploy, but
you might get a weird URL.
No, it gave me the right one, sometimes
you get the wrong URL, but you can,
if you look at the URL here,
it's the correct URL.
FEM, from scratch,
example .netlify.app, and
this website is now online and
fully functional.
Well, one page is fully there, so
you can share it with your friends or
whatever you want to brag a little
bit about being done with it.
And, yeah,
that's all you really need to do here,
Netlify does offer you to
set up a custom domain.
If you have an existing one,
it's super easy to connect to it, so
you can do that, and
they give you HTTPS for free, so
you'll have a secure connection,
along the way there as well.